---
layout: post
title: "Dear Mrs. Keleher,"
---
<div style="color: #2e7d32;">
  
A letter to my third-grade teacher.

</div>


<!--more-->

Dear Mrs. Keleher,

<p class=indent> On June 26, 2017, you sent me a small envelope containing a letter and a packet of forget-me-not seeds. I keep that letter and its tired envelope in a box in the corner of my room. I'm sorry to say I never got around to planting those forget-me-nots in our backyard, even though I love those little blue flowers. Forget-me-nots are sky-blue flowers, each with a golden sun unfolding at the centre, sending soft rays down the middle of every rounded, velvety petal. They're my second-favourite flower, right behind bleeding hearts. When I was as young as you knew me to be, I plucked bleeding hearts from the motley bunch of wildflowers that bloomed in the summer heat, and I peeled the silky pink petals away from the white teardrop at the bottom. I didn't know that every part of a bleeding heart is toxic: the leaves, the stem, the roots, and the flowers. All I saw was their beauty. The blue flowers you anticipated are much more innocent, and they served their purpose while remaining unfulfilled. I remember you, and I could never forget you. I remember you each time I'm asked about a favourite teacher, and though it feels childish to cling to a third-grade experience, my mind brings me back to that year.</p> <p class=indent> I was often loud, like small children are, but I didn't know how to be when I wasn't around other people. I wasn't sure what to do with myself when I found myself alone. My dad dropped me off at school excessively early every day, so I spent a lot of time awkwardly wandering the halls with my eyes glued to the linoleum floor, just trying to stay out of the janitor's way. At some point, I began to spend those early mornings in your classroom, where I got to talk about all of the things I liked, all the things I found pretty, and everything I dreamed about. I don't think I've ever been as creative as I was in your class. Somehow, there was no embarrassment or fear in being a little too much, no laughter at absurd ideas, not even when I filled pages and pages of composition notebooks with stories about me and my classmates saving the world from impossibly evil monsters. You even let me read my perpetually growing series about anthropomorphic fruits and vegetables to the class, and instead of objecting to their brutal deaths (which usually involved a blender or two), you simply asked my mom if I had been reading any Stephen King novels before lauding my writing as "creative genius." You noticed the things that made me feel beautiful, like the cheap cuff bracelet bejewelled with blue and silver gems and the flowery tops I always wore. Do you remember that game you had us play in pairs? We had to close our eyes while the other person changed one thing about their appearance, and when we opened our eyes, we had to guess what had changed. I took that bracelet off, and while my partner couldn't figure out what had changed, you instantly knew.</p> <p class=indent> Recently, I turned 17. I still have that sparkly bracelet in my jewellery drawer, and I don't remember when I first failed to see its beauty, but sliding it onto my wrist now makes me feel like a little girl again—all of a sudden, I'm worthy of patience, allowed to ask any question, and worst and best of all, I feel pretty. To tell the truth, I am ashamed of how much I've changed, which sounds incredibly stupid because 8 years old was a long time ago. Sometimes, a fear flashes in the back of my mind, a fear that you would be devastated to see who I grew up to be, but I've struggled and I am stronger for it. I try to convince myself I am stronger for it. I don't know if I'll ever work up the courage to send you this letter because right now I'm still just pretending to be brave, and although I remember you, I don't know if you'll remember me. I can hear a voice that doesn't belong to me in my head saying that it wouldn't make sense to send this letter because time and distance have stretched too far from where we began. It also feels cloyingly sentimental to reflect on such a happy time and to allow myself to wax poetic about flowers and beauty, and simplicity. Also, I can't be certain you'll still enjoy my writing. In some ways, it's nice to write like nothing has changed. I don't expect you to remember exactly what you wrote in your letter to me, but you reflected on a letter I had written to you of my own accord. Here I am again, writing a letter to you of my own accord, except I think 8-year-old me was much braver than 17-year-old me, because I'm still relearning how to wonder and be audacious. If this ever gets to you, maybe with the help of a friend and hopefully with a packet of forget-me-not seeds, just know that this was a very long way of saying "thank you." Thank you.</p> 

Best,

Rebecca Koleth
