---
layout: post
title: Update
---
<style>
h1.post-title {
  color: #4e978c;
}
</style>

<div style="color: #4e9874;">
Quick update.
</div>
<!--more-->
<div class= "indent">
It has been quite a while. Honestly, I haven't been doing very much, except maybe having fun. My room is clean, my clothes are folded, and I have a stash of candy. What more could I want?
</div>
<div class= "indent">
Today is the very first day of September, which is incredibly scary. I didn't post at all in August, oops. I've been reading <em>Human Acts</em> by Han Kang, and I am equal parts disturbed and fascinated. I'm eating pumpkin seeds and waiting for fall to make every nook and cranny cozy. I've also been journaling more, and I hope to read it all back one day to see where I've been and where I will be. 
</div>
<div class= "indent">
I don't feel like converting audio files into mp3 form, but here's a good song: 
  <a href="https://open.spotify.com/playlist/6uaFYahdNcCOocUhmJkUJG" target="_blank" class="pink-link">
Sunset
  </a>
  by Caroline Polachek. I don't care if she's mainstream or whatever, I like a lot of her music. I've realised that most of the songs I listen to are my favourites because I've heard them so many times; they are all so familiar. Even so, there are some songs that become too familiar, and then I have to slip past them without letting go of them. I know they once were fresh like newborn stars falling across my line of sight, but they wear me down until the bass line doesn't resound enough to stick. I feel bad about it. I can't say I'm the same or that I've changed, but I am trying to break free from familiar in more ways than one. New music is one of those ways, and it is more rewarding than I could have imagined. 
</div>
<div class="indent">
I'm trying not to write for an audience. I don't even have one, so there really is no need. I might be getting better at letting things go, or I might just care a little less. Either way, it's rare that a song is immediately to my liking. It's rare that I am greedy and eager to play a song, that I rewind the bar of time to soak each layer into the folds of my brain. I can only worry when they start to become too familiar, so I tuck them away like shelved goods, and they stay there, diligently waiting for the moment I spin back to them. 
</div>
<div class="indent">
I think that's why I don't want to listen to songs that so many other people listen to. In the least snobby way, I tend to avoid the mainstream. Every time I hear a song out in the wild, it loses a little of the shine, like a well-handled bit of leather growing duller with each touch. I don't know why that sounds so much like a bit from purity culture.
</div>
<div class="indent">
Anyways, I'm still looking for new music. Spotify's algorithm for new music put paid to my efforts, so I must turn to Chosic for help.
</div>
<div class="indent">
The new music makes me uncomfortable, but I think that's good for me. I'm too stuck in my ways, and I can feel myself sort of drifting along in a feather-soft cloud of my own making and contentment. I don't know what to do with my face, or what to say, when to interject, what notes to take, or the appropriate next laugh. I want just one strong tether to sink me beneath the dazed state of my feeble mind. Maybe I'm going senile. Who cares. I want to keep adding good music to this playlist and find that there is no until, no limit, or condition to fulfil. When I die, and if souls are real, the thread to sever between my body and my ghost-pale form will be a song I heard once upon a time.
</div>
<div class="indent">
Okay, enough crazy talk. I am feeling pretty chill, and hopefully I will be nice to everyone, and they will be nice to me.
</div>
<hr style="background-color:#4e978c; height: 2px; border: none;">
<div class="indent">
Writing is quite nice and intricate, and I might owe myself a few niceties. -RK
</div>
