---
layout: post
title: "Hole in the Wall"
---
<div style="color: #2e7d32;">
  
I once made a hole in the wall.


</div>

<!--more-->

<div class=indent> Fear is a reaction. People's brains tend to either prompt them to stay and fight or run away. Everyone knows about the fight-or-flight response, and everyone has experienced the rush of adrenaline and cortisol as their body gears up to survive, but there are two less popularised responses: freeze or fawn.</div> <div class=indent> I feel fear so often it permeates my whole being with freezing hatred. I’ve felt fear so strong it has cut right into my flesh. I hate fear, and I am ashamed of feeling fear and even more ashamed of hating fear.</div> <div class=indent> The walls of this house are not thin. I would know, because when I was younger I took a loose screw and worked on carving a hole into the plaster wall next to my bed every night, and by the time I was found out, it was only about an inch in depth and width. They asked why, because it wasn't quite typical behaviour for a little girl, and I didn't have much of an answer, but I did have a habit of destroying things. I liked cramming my body into the space under the shelves in the closet and pulling the door closed and pretending someone was looking for me. I wanted to create a space where I could only be found if I let myself be found, a place to call home instead of a house. I liked pulling myself under the bed and sprawling flat underneath in the dusty darkness, hearing my heartbeat amplified in the delicate structure of one eardrum and the steady thump of the washing machine on the floor below through the maplewood flooring in the other ear. That sound, reassuring me that my veins pumped dark blood towards my heart, which my arteries would carry away from my heart—this time bright red, blood-rich oxygen—to each nook in my body, was comforting to hear. Now, though, when I lay my head against my star-spattered pillow, I hear the blood rushing in my ears, and I have to turn to the ceiling to escape the noise. I am afraid that when my earbuds die and the noise filtering remains on, every rustle and breath demands attention, and with the lights dimmed and my desk lamp on, I spook at the sight of my own shadow.</div> <div class=indent> For me, fear is terribly physical. My eyes go wide, my limbs tense up, whatever. The worst feeling is the blood pulsing faster through the abdominal aorta, caught between the weight of the diaphragm and the iliac arteries, pounding on the spine like it’s trying to break through bone. If you lie down and you hold the muscles in your body tight enough, you can see the aorta press up against your skin and threaten to burst. I'd call that unreasonable. Fear paired with shame sets my face on fire and locks my jaw, as if I am meant to scream but should not. Less of a reaction and more of a non-action, but not in the Taoist wu wei kind of style, and more of a paralysis. Fear and shame have always been physical for me, not just my insides demanding an outside audience but also cold fear when external forces ruin my defined system.</div> <div class=indent> Fear is when my mom grips me by the arm and screams because someone has asked her if I am okay. My fear and her fear when someone sees the scars on my legs with an innocent worry. My fear when I think about how she first reacted when she found out, a reaction that has not changed but only quieted down with her calmness, is the kind of reaction that does not abide by the rules because it always threatens to resurface. Her fear when she realises she has made so many mistakes, even as she tells me she never blamed her parents for anything they did, implying that I shouldn't either. Maybe she should blame them. Fear is writing this and admitting that I am scared and having someone read this and know that I've been scared and I will be scared again and again and again. Shame is admitting that I do still blame myself.</div> <div class=indent> Fear and shame have nothing on pain. Pain is displacement, estrangement, neglect, obsolescence, dissolution, and eclipse. Physical pain is not something I have too much trouble with. Well, I've had trouble not running to it. This pain is about not being here, even though I happen to be right here. This pain is crying only at night, so I don't have to deal with my mom, who never learnt how to comfort anything but a newborn. Pain is wrapping my arms around myself while I crumple, imagining the arms of a friend's mom, mostly because I will never achieve vulnerability with my own. Pain is realising that my pain has been dismissed and hating that I even think I've felt real pain. Pain is them patching up my hole in the wall.</div> <div class=indent> Fear, recently, has been loneliness. When I'm tucked away in my room while my family shreds itself apart, a part of me wants to be out there, screaming my lungs out just the same. I want to stop freezing and let that aorta spew burning and brilliant blood everywhere, even if it would kill me to fight. Mostly, I want to carve a hole in the wall and curl up like an overcooked shrimp. I could build a home in a hole in the wall, one that they'll never patch up.</div> <div class=indent> Sorry if this has been gross, but it's one thing that I owe—Rebecca Koleth
