---
layout: post
title: "red velvet cake to cure birthday blues"
date: 2026-06-29
tags: [delights]
published: true
---

<style>
    p {text-indent: 50px;}
</style>

<p>It’s been a while since I’ve tried writing an essay of delights, but Ross Gay started on his birthday, so in the days following my birthday, I’ve decided to try again. I might complain more than I delight, but I think that’s okay.</p>
<p>I was born on a Thursday at around 2 pm in a city north of the town where I grew up. I’ve never really liked my birthday. Honestly, I’ve never even really liked summer. It stretches slow, like the pull of saltwater taffy, bought from an overpriced shop along the beach and clinging to teeth. It’s a slow consumption, no matter how quick you chew, and before you can unwrap another swirled piece of candy on the drive home, the whole box has gone melty, and your car smells of bananas and caramel. All this to say, it’s sticky, and it comes and goes both too fast and too slow.</p>
<p>In a way, the thing I hate most about my birthday is all the waiting that comes with it and how little really changes. I think this time might have been different, like maybe with the red velvet cake I got, I’ve successfully drowned the birthday blues. It feels like so many fun and exciting things should happen within the span of 24 hours, but I wake up and want to go back to sleep for a few more minutes, just like any other day. There are no fancy plans, no one to feel excitement with, and the light streaming in through the windows is no brighter. I’m no taller, no shorter, and I look the same way I did when I crawled into bed the night before. But this time, I get to leave Andover, and I don’t spend the night of my birthday alone. I’ve rarely received birthday presents on the actual day of my birthday, so I’ll just consider all the good things that came in the days around it as part of the gifts.</p>
<p>I like candy, mostly the kinds coated in sour citric acid. They scrape the surface of my tongue raw, so spices and salt can embed themselves in the tender muscle and sting wonderfully. I find a golden ticket in a gas station, hidden among the snacks, and I think it’s a joke. It’s a ticket for a quarter pound of free candy at a candy store not far from the gas station, in a beautiful town where everyone is out and about, so full of life. The clear, plastic bag quickly fills with a colorful mix of everything interesting, with plenty of sour candy scattered throughout. Free candy! It’s nothing but surreal.</p>
<p>In upstate New York, the grass really is greener. There are hills that swoop up and down and into more hills, and the dips in the road lift my stomach into my throat in the best way. The trees that cover the hills in the distance look like they’re clambering atop each other, and I like to imagine that the ground is flat and they just grow right from the leafy canopy created by the trees below.</p>
<p>The sun burns with a more orange glow as it sets in New York. It glimmers on the surface of windows and the small lake. It makes me feel sad. How many sunsets have I missed where the sun deepens as it slips out of sight?</p>
<p>This weekend, I see the Big Dipper constellation for the first time. It’s ridiculous, given that I’ve taken two classes on astronomy and spent hours of my life holed up in the observatory control room monitoring pictures taken by our school’s fancy telescope equipped with a CCD camera. It was always sweltering in that tiny, dark room, even when the dome a few steps above us was frigid. I never thought to just stare up at the stars late at night.</p>
<p>My first time hearing bullfrogs is by the dock on Hatch Lake, right after marveling at the way the sky seems to spin past me like a shell of stars. They sound so silly. They sound like squeaky farts and little chihuahua yips.</p>
<p>Forrest Gump is a surprisingly fast-paced movie. I like the part when he just runs and runs and runs. I wish I could run across America and then turn around and run right back across. I wish I could run anywhere. He gets shot in the butt when he’s serving in Vietnam, and I think of Tim O’Brien’s book, The Things They Carried. I think about soldiers and the exhibition of photographs in one of the beautiful buildings. They were soldiers from the Western Sahara, photographed to look like the little plastic toy soldiers kids play with. I think of war and independence and what it would mean to fight in a conflict that’s been ongoing for over half a century. I like Lieutenant Dan and his sea legs. I like shrimp.</p>
<p>The clouds are wispy and tufted, the warm sun streaming through the leaves never gets old, and I eat cookie dough with red, white, and blue star sprinkles. It’s nice. Everything I eat is nice. There’s the banh mi from the city I was born in, stuffed with runny fried eggs and ham, the bagel from flour and salt (plain, with fried egg, red onions, tomato, onion jam, and maple syrup drizzle), the tacos with tender pork, sweet chunks of pineapple, and good hot sauce, and a soft chocolate chip cookie. I also tried an Ikea-meatball-flavored lollipop this weekend, but I wasn’t a big fan.</p>
<p>When I got home, I ate some red velvet cake. It was good. Hopefully it keeps the birthday blues away.</p> 

