---
layout: post
title: "my jellyfish life"
date: 2026-06-17
tags: [personal writing]
published: true
---
<style>
    p {text-indent: 50px;}
</style>

<p>Jellyfish don’t have much in the way of organs, so it’s easy to focus on the fact that they lack brains.</p>
<p>Jellyfish have no vocal cords, no brains, no hearts, no lungs, no eyes, no bones, no kidneys, no central nervous system at all. They make no sound, just like other beautiful animals. Any sound they create in the vacuum of the ocean is simply a consequence of their motion, a swish drowned in the hum of deep waters. Even if jellyfish could speak, their words would not come from their hearts. Their gelatinous bodies contain a nerve net, a simple, decentralized nervous system that has served them well for as long as they’ve lived.</p>
<p>Regardless of their simplicity—or maybe because of their simplicity—jellyfish are incredibly successful in their survival. They exist simply to continue existing. Can that be enough?</p>
<p>The plastic bag bobbing in the waves of high tide looks full of air, ready to pop. I go to the beach only to trace the shore and crouch down at every other glimmering seashell, brushing wet sand out of the pearlescent ridges before adding to the lopsided stack in my right hand. The wash of foam pushes me away from the water’s edge, and I get a closer glance at the cloudy plastic. Strips of the bag are floating in a shallow puddle. I inch forward, letting the white ocean spray spatter my bare legs, and I pause. The bag is a flat disk, but it has tentacles, those strips of plastic suspended in water, and I’ve never seen one in real life, but here I am, and here it is. A dead jellyfish, unlike any of the elegantly flowing jellies I’ve dreamed in watercolors. It’s dead, but if living is surviving, I don’t know what it is to be alive.</p>
<p>Have you ever given yourself a conditional deadline? An if-else statement that sits anchored in a pool of stomach acid just to leave you feeling a little heavier, moving a little slower? It sinks deeper, the promise of action allowing it to burrow deeper into the soft, fleshy inner lining until you’re just a child who has swallowed a clump of magnets without a single fully-formed thought. And there’s something magnetic about restricting a course of action, pinning a hope or fleeting dream to the palm of your hand to have, just to have, in secret. If I see a shooting star tonight, I’ll scoop it from the dark waters of the sky and tie my wish to it, but if not, I’ll dream of the velvety ocean depths when the lights dim.</p>
<p>If I can learn how to exist just to exist and live without the crushing absurdity of trying to understand why before time is up, then I’ll just exist. Else, I’ll thrash about in the waves like a beached whale, wondering why the ocean tides leave me to collapse under my own weight. Existing seems like the easiest thing I could do, and if jellyfish can do it without needing a brain, it should be simple. It should be simple. I never learned to float, though, so even the brush of the ocean’s outermost reach is enough to make me step back. And it is all about floating, really, the way that jellyfish float through life in any direction, but I must not be made for it because my body sinks one way or another until the water grazing my face drives my brain into action. I’m not comfortable with inaction. I can’t lie still.</p>
<p>I hate jellyfish and their blobby, goopy existence and their washed-up bodies littering the shoreline and their lack of brains and their lack of vocal cords and their general passivity. If you can’t think, you might as well not exist. They spend their lives drifting and waggling their simple bodies through the waves like a chastising pointer finger. I hate them because, in all their simplicity, they still inflict pain. Even as one of the most basic organisms on this planet, they still react, they sting, and they leave strings of red welts draped across weak flesh.</p>
<p>I worry that pain is inextricably woven into life. Or, to be frank, I know that any real existence cannot be without pain, and that pain is an experience almost every animal shares. Perhaps the jellyfish is enviable in its inability to experience pain, or perhaps that inability isolates it in a way that would create terrible loneliness if it could feel loneliness.  Then again, I don’t believe you can feel pain noiselessly. I once read about this girl who had her face blown off in the fiery aftermath of an explosion. She had no mouth, only long pain. She had no mouth, so she couldn’t scream, and that lack and that pain seemed to need each other in a way that jellyfish can’t know. I hope that pain comes with noise, and I selfishly hope that it is okay to cry out and one day even scream.</p>
<p>Did you know jellyfish have been around since before the dinosaurs? I feel less like a dinosaur and more like a jellyfish these years. The days fall away from me, time crumbles until a scream becomes no more than a whisper. I leave no evidence, just a trail of noiseless bubbles and a chain of little red bumps on the closest warm body. There are no tracks, no fractured teeth or fossilized remains to marvel at from afar. The pain is evidence of existence. When they come to collect my bones, they will find that I have none, that I’ve only slipped through life as quietly as silk.</p>
<p>I spend all my time wanting to go home. It’s as simple as pinching a shell off the beach, a perfect home for a small hermit crab, and wishing you had something as small as a home, or as big as the vast ocean. I can’t help you know what it is to always want to go home until you’re at home on a fading summer day and you stare up, up at nothing at all, and before you can really think about it, the words “I want to go home” slip out of your mouth. They slick the whites of your eyes with salty ocean tears, kicking up a splash that will find you hours later grinding your teeth and feeling a grain of sand crunch between your molars. I spend all my time wishing for something else, and I know that it won’t come, but I let the sun turn me into shiny plastic for beachgoers to avoid. I’m particular, and whether it’s floorboards or a comforter, I want to go home. I have to wonder if I belong with the jellyfish, and if I could learn to live at any slice of the sea, in the shallow, blue waters, or the frigid depths.</p>
<p>If Descartes was right, and we have to think to be, then what state of being do jellyfish occupy? Going through the motions, powered by pure impulse, a net of nerves that spread neurons through the body to trigger rudimentary reflexes, it all seems pointless, just drops of ocean to keep the sand dark with water.</p>
<p>To think is to realize that I’m not right there, I’m rarely there at all. A distance grows between a present me and the space in my eyes, and when I stop my drifting, I find that I’ve come too far from my state of being, and I find that somehow the tether has worn to only a bit of thread, thin as fishing line, sharp enough to slice. Time flows heavy, it’s motion through water, unforgiving to urgency. Doing without being and banishing my mind to the absolute extrema of the home behind my eye is my jellyfish life. It’s easy to exist just to exist until a lack of thinking means a lack of existing.</p> 
<p>Jellyfish defy time. In a blur of sheer organza, they move slowly, like light passing through the panes of a frosted window. They are immeasurable, glowing in their silence, stinging in their right to cause pain without the capacity to perceive pain, protecting and surviving. When I’m loud enough, I can’t hear myself at all. There are times when I am sure I am being so loud, too loud, but I cannot bring myself to believe that the sound is more than air pushed through a narrow opening. I cannot be sure I have vocal cords. The noise is gone, and the static wash of the ocean fills my mouth with salt.</p>
<p>It’s a jellyfish life to be silent and to still move. It’s perfect and terrible, and they mustn’t want or wish for more, but they don’t have the heart or brain needed for hope. On that beach, with a sky stretched as colorless and taut as the bloated plastic of a jellyfish glob, I inched closer into the froth of the waves to peer with morbid curiosity at the end of a jellyfish life. The sun is a soft smear of persimmon on the water’s knife edge, and everything is glazed in the warmth of color, and carefully straightened hair is tossed into beach waves by the salt in the air as I crouch down to poke at the jellyfish with a strangled piece of driftwood. The body—the corpse—is grotesque, and I’m suddenly afraid it will burst, so I drop the stick.</p>
<p>Philosophers have a lot to say about life and death, but only one theory sticks with me: death is not something to fear because when we exist, death is not present, and when death is present, we no longer exist. It’s a great equalizer. Jellyfish exist, and they die, except for that one biologically immortal jellyfish that doesn’t seem to die naturally, and we exist, and we die. If we cease to exist when we die, the jellyfish and their barely-there existence, their very translucence blurs their life and death. That solid distinction they lack separates us from them. But they drift, they move through the waters in a living death, and all the while they exist, they only exist. The only action a jellyfish takes is inaction. In death, they swell up noiselessly, and the beauty of their silence rivals the disgust that glides down the cold back of my throat.</p>
<p>I love jellyfish. I think they’re beautiful, like most silent creatures have to be, and I think I don’t want to live a jellyfish life at all. I want to struggle just as hard, feel the ugly nip of fear and bite of pain, and more than that, the warmth of a home and kiss of some kind of love. I want to be more than a set of impulses, exist to live, and to clump wet sand into the hopeful form of a sandcastle just to carve a space out in the real world. I want to make noise, to unfurl, to insist on action that must be more than a kept promise because I am done floating through life. When I leave, they will find my bones, and they will find that they are dry and well-loved, with teethmarks in the marrow.</p>










