---
layout: post
title: "for give and take"
date: 2026-06-16
tags: [personal writing]
published: true
---

<style>
    p {text-indent: 50px;}
</style>

<p>The backseat is all mine, a rare happening. I stretch out with my head resting on the window, every pot hole and hard break thunking the back of my skull against the cold glass. In the front, in the coveted passenger seat, my sister laughs too loud, but I don’t hear what was funny. If I were in the mood to laugh, I would take a deep breath in and swallow it back. No, it’s not funny.</p>
<p>My wired earbuds tangle in my hair, burrowing closer until the music in my ears traps itself there, and I don’t want to listen to anything else. I don’t want to do anything, at least not before we’ve reached York Beach. I watched one of the Spiderman movies last night, the one with Tobey Maguire, and I’m listening to the soundtrack while my phone grows cold in my hand. Every time a Spotify ad pops up, I swipe out of the app and then back in. It makes me feel smart that I’ve found a crappy loophole, but what really makes me feel good is that I don’t have to listen to the twangy country music my sister insists on blasting through the car. She amps it all the way up, so loud that the sound reverberates through the skeleton of the car, and I can feel the vibrations against the back of my head.</p>
<p>The sunlight should warm the left side of my face, but after filtering through the blue-tinted glass, it’s cold. I’m not ready for the beach, and really, it isn’t beach weather, but we wanted to go, and where else to go than Maine?</p>
<div align= "center">...</div>
	<p>We’re almost there, and I’ve forgotten what York Beach looks like, and as hard as I try to remember the sight (it’s only a couple of feet away), my mind draws a blank. My mom pulls into the smallest parking spot I’ve ever seen, and then I find myself upright, hopping out of the car. All the blood in my body abandons me, and for a good minute, I see nothing but darkness before dots of color sparkle into the edges of my vision. A good few blinks and my eyes are filled with the rolling waves pressed flush against the gritty sand of the shoreline, sand that clumps wetly until the slant of the seawall fades from dark grey to a soft ash. 
	My fuzzy Ugg boots aren’t waterproof. We’ve come just after the high tide has soaked wet kisses into the top layer of the sand, and once my slightly soggy boots meet squishy ground, I crouch down to dig. Going to the beach means you have to find small things, and it doesn’t matter what they are, as long as they’re small enough for a pocket or the space between your ankle and the fluffy lining of your boot. Going to the beach means finding, holding, and making precious. When I’m allowed to pause, I pick up a pearlescent bit of shell shimmering pink and purple in the dim wintry sun and let the edges dig into my palms. Before we leave, my mom will find a plastic bag in the car and free my sore hands from the cold, sandy shells.</p>
<div align= "center">...</div>
<p>The sun is up high in the frozen sky, but the clouds smother its light, and there’s no avoiding the winter chill that slips up into the sleeves of my soft, thin jacket. My sister has a book in her tote bag, and I’m sure she imagined something different. I’m a thousand percent certain that she had let herself believe that the beach was a wedge of eternal summer, a glowing slice of warmth that envelops and makes cold a distant threat. To be truthful, I had hoped so as well.</p>
<p>Cold air freezes bitterly until the roots of my teeth taste the cold. I run my tongue over them, but there’s nothing for it—ocean cold clings tighter. The tips of my fingers bloom pink, and the bend of each individual joint is slow and creaky. I press the hand with the shells in it up to the crook of my neck, tucking my chin forward as a clamp to keep the warmth where it should stay.</p>
<div align= "center">...</div>
<p>My mom is skirting the waves, taking quick steps back when the flat froth reaches out towards her sneakers. It’s nothing like the burn of summer, when the water is finally just warm enough to swim in, but the sand burns the soles of your feet. If I close my eyes, I can feel that warmth on the thin skin of my eyelids, the sun setting the world aglow with orange, so warm I don’t even want to watch the waves chase my mom up the beach or my sister try not to shiver in the clunky beach chair with the cheap romcom she found on a shelf at Target. I don’t want to open my eyes. I want to know when I can come home to the salt-crusted air and the wind that freezes the warm wetness of my mouth, when I can close my eyes again and breathe York Beach into my lungs to root and grow and sway. I want to hold on to the orange behind my eyelids until it becomes me.</p>
<div align= "center">...</div>
<p>The car ride back is less bright. The salty air must quiet, or soothe, or dampen whatever keeps us strung taut in the car, and I fall asleep, vowing to come back to York Beach soon. I forgot one of the shells in my boot, and when I yank them off in my room, it tumbles out like a promise from forgiving lips. I am lighter and saltier, and the ache behind my eyes has not faded, but when I bite down, I feel the crunch of sand, sand that must have burrowed between my molars as I laughed in the salty spray. I swallow it back instead of spitting.</p>
<p>I know when the sand glitters like shattered crystal across the maple hardwood flooring that, as much as I cling to the beach, it clings to me. With all the hours spent with palms sinking into wet sand, fingers digging in, evidence in round grains under the fingernails, the beach should feel everlasting. Why do I forget so easily? Why does the passive motion of the car tape the gaps in my memory more than the shells that line the ledge of my vanity mirror? I can’t be mad. After every trip to the beach, I find that I’ve taken a part of it with me, so perhaps the beach holds onto a part of me. Maybe the memories will come flooding back when I close my eyes to the orange glow and let the salty tang of the air coat my throat.</p>
<p>It’s been years since I’ve been to York Beach. Sand like a promise, salt whipping hair into the form of ocean waves, and patience. It grows like a pearl inside of me, that little sandy dream, and so I’ll spend forever picking shiny bits of shell from the sand until I’m ready to drift with the lull of a steady car, warm in the passenger seat.</p>
